Have you ever asked a child where's Jehovah right away? Their finger goes up to cute
We appreciate that their parents have taught them some very basic things Jehovah's name as well
But what if we were to ask the same question of an adult?
Where's Jehovah and they put their hand up?
Not so cute
The question is really deeper than that the question where is Jehovah is really where is Jehovah in my life?
Where is Jehovah when I'm making decisions?
What is his will?
What would he like for me to do?
That's the question
Where is Jehovah in my life?
And that's basically what Jesus Christ was saying in the model prayer
There would be a priority in things that we would request of our Heavenly Father if we were to put our own
Interests first our concerns that would really be out of the priority that he outlined
It's the sanctification of Jehovah's name, which is number one and then his kingdom as well as Jehovah's will
When Jesus was here on earth there was no question that he put Jehovah first in his life
Everything he did everything he said how he treated others all revolved around Jehovah's sanctification
Jesus not only gave the model prayer
He lived the model prayer. He worked in perfect harmony with that prayer and
He instructed his followers to do the same always trying to put Jehovah as the number one thing in their life in
Small decisions as well as the larger decisions
So he gave the model prayer for something for us to follow as a model as a guide not word for word
But the thoughts and the order of importance within that prayer in fact
Jesus was so concerned about sanctifying Jehovah's name that he did this on a regular basis
Reminding his closest associates how to pray what are the proper things to pray for?
The footnote under Matthew 6 9 is interesting be sanctified it defines it as be held sacred be treated as holy
And that really helps us to understand what sanctification means
But our study Bible really helps us as as his point is put out in a comment it says this in the study Bible
This is a petition that all creation including both humans and angels hold God's name holy
The petition also includes the thought that God take action to sanctify himself by clearing his name of the reproach
That has been heaped on it ever since the rebellion of the first human pair in the Garden of Eden
Yes towards the end of Jesus
Ministry he could confidently and humbly approach Jehovah and say in John 1726
I have made your name known to them and I will make it known to them
Those are the words that we want to say as well as we follow Jesus our model and
And there's no question again that Jesus put Jehovah first
He was a priority the sanctification of his name was number one
To sanctify God's name for you and for me is more than just words
It's more than what we say in our prayer. It's what we do what we put into action and we need to ask ourselves on a daily basis
Where is Jehovah in my life when I'm making decisions?
How I treat others and how I serve Jehovah
Yes, Jehovah must be very happy when he looks down at all those who are tied into this program to see how they you
Are putting Jehovah first you are simplifying your lives
You're sanctifying his name by your work assignments in the congregation in your actions and your thoughts
And many of us have been serving Jehovah for many years many decades
But we must continue to ask where is Jehovah in my life by making wise decisions
Even if we have many years of faithful service
The problem with Jehovah's people in the past his named people Israel was that they were supposed to be holy
They were supposed to be sanctified set apart to do his will
But many times they did their own will notice what the prophet Jeremiah had to say on this subject at Jeremiah chapter 2
Verses 5 and 6 and notice the question that is posed by Jeremiah to those people
Jeremiah 2 5 says this is what Jehovah says what fault did your forefathers find in me so that they strayed so far from me
And they walked after worthless idols and became worthless themselves
This is the point they did not ask where is Jehovah
Simple question, but profound and notice verse 8 even the priests who were supposed to be holy leading the people
They did not ask where is Jehovah those handling the law did not know me the shepherds rebelled against me
The prophets prophesied by bail and they followed those who could bring no benefit
Jehovah was not part of their lives. They were doing their own will not Jehovah's
Now it's one thing to follow Jehovah's direction to do his will when things are going well
When things are going as we have
anticipated, but what about when difficulties come upon us trial some situations
Then here comes the test
Now many of God's servants throughout the centuries have proved their integrity their faithfulness
Despite whatever has been thrown against them
Can you think of a Bible character that had so much against him so much trial so much
depressing situations and he was yet very faithful
Are you thinking about Job
There's one of the characters that we refer to many many times now Job was a faithful man
We know the end of the story, but throughout his or deals
He really was tested and he lost focus. He became short-sighted. He became self-absorbed in a way
He replaced all the windows in his home with mirrors
So all he could see is himself all he could see is his own problems
So Jehovah used the young man a lie who to remind Job that he needed to look at things from a different perspective notice Job 35
Job 35
and verse 9
The lie who said people cry out when under great oppression they cry for relief from the domination of the powerful
But no one says where is God my grand maker?
So he was trying to really remind him of the big picture things from looking at things from Jehovah's standpoint
And he helped Job remove those mirrors so he could look out his windows see Jehovah see the big picture see his smallness
In comparison to Jehovah's largeness in fact if you go to Job 42
Notice there his response as he was readjusted and humbly listen to these reminders Job 42 verse 3
He said I spoke but without understanding verse 5
My ears have heard about you, but now I do see you with my eyes
And that is why I take back what I said and I repent in dust and ashes
Job's experience is something that we may have experienced some kind of trial some kind of discouraging experience
There's a very close friend of mine that came into Bethel around the same time as myself
We got married around the same time
Unfortunately, he lost his wife in death a few years ago
Now that very month what did he do? Did he get depressed? Did he quit?
He auxiliary pioneered and when I spoke to him and asked him how could you have such a focus such a determination?
He said well, I looked at it this way Paul said that we are a theatrical spectacle before men and angels
I view myself as
This is my Job moment. So here I am. I'm thrust on to this stage
Up in that balcony is Jehovah Jesus
The resurrected anointed ones the angels they're looking down at me and there before me
In the audience is the world and my brothers and my sisters and down in that orchestra pit
Satan the devil and the demons here. I am lights are on all everyone's looking at me
What am I going to do? Will I run? Will I hide or is this my Job moment? Is this where I prove my integrity?
He did and he continues to do so today
But what about us when we're going through discouraging circumstances?
Our Job moment. Do we ask where is Jehovah? Are we proving by our integrity by what we're doing promoting Kingdom interest?
St. Define Jehovah as the number one thing in our life?
Are we doing that daily? We need to ask ourselves that on a daily basis even when we're giving talks when we're dealing with
Brothers and sisters at work or in a congregation we need to ask where is Jehovah?
And that will really change our treatment of others how we view them and how we view ourselves
So Jesus reminders really help us to appreciate that there's a priority in what we pray for and how we carry out those prayers
Always putting Jehovah as the number one thing in our life knowing that all of our other requests our personal requests will be heard by Jehovah and
Will be answered by him